VCS pages section (#6831)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/github-integration.adoc

It is possible to edit the webhooks in GitHub to restrict events that trigger a build. Editing the webhook settings lets you change which hooks get sent to CircleCI, but does not change the types of hooks that trigger builds. CircleCI will always build push hooks, and build on PR hooks (depending on settings), but if you remove push hooks from the webhook settings, CircleCI will not build. 

Refer to the https://developer.github.com/v3/repos/hooks/#edit-a-hook[GitHub Edit a Hook document] for details.

Refer to the CircleCI documentation on <<workflows#using-contexts-and-filtering-in-your-workflows,Workflow filters>> for information on how to build tag pushes.

== Permissions overview

CircleCI requests the following permissions from GitHub, defined in the http://developer.github.com/v3/oauth/#scopes[GitHub permissions model].

**Read Permission**

- Get a user's email address

**Write Permissions**

- Get a list of a user's repos
- Add an SSH key to a user's account

**Admin Permissions**, needed for setting up a project

- Add deploy keys to a repo
- Add service hooks to a repo

> **Note:** CircleCI only asks for permissions that are absolutely necessary. However, CircleCI is constrained by the specific permissions that GitHub chooses to supply. For example, getting a list of all user's repos -- public and private -- from GitHub, requires the https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/understanding-scopes-for-oauth-apps/#available-scopes[`repo` scope], which is write-level access. GitHub does not provide a read-only permission for listing all a user's repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: CircleCI only asks for permissions that are absolutely necessary. However, CircleCI is constrained by the specific permissions that GitHub chooses to supply. For example, getting a list of all user's repos -- public and private -- from GitHub, requires the https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/understanding-scopes-for-oauth-apps/#available-scopes[`repo` scope], which is write-level access. GitHub does not provide a read-only permission for listing all a user's repositories.
```

If you want to push to the repository from your builds, you will need a deployment key with write access. See the below section for GitHub-specific instructions to create a deployment key.

=== Create a GitHub deploy key

In this example, the GitHub repository is `https://github.com/you/test-repo`, and the CircleCI project is `https://circleci.com/gh/you/test-repo`.

1. Create an SSH key-pair by following the https://help.github.com/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent/[GitHub instructions]. When prompted to enter a passphrase, do **not** enter one:

```shell
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

1. Go to `https://github.com/you/test-repo/settings/keys`, and click **Add Deploy Key**. Enter a title in the "Title" field, then copy and paste the public key you created in step 1. Check **Allow write access**, then click **Add key**.

1. Go to your project settings in the CircleCI app, select **SSH Keys**, and **Add SSH key**. In the "Hostname" field, enter `github.com`and add the private key you created in step 1. Then click **Add SSH Key**.

1. In your `.circleci/config.yml` file, add the fingerprint using the `add_ssh_keys` key:

```yaml

> version: 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

jobs:
  deploy-job:
    steps:
      - add_ssh_keys:
          fingerprints:
            - "SO:ME:FIN:G:ER:PR:IN:T"
```

When you push to your GitHub repository from a job, CircleCI will use the SSH key you added.

=== How are these keys used?

When CircleCI builds your project, the private key is installed into the `.ssh` directory and SSH is subsequently configured to communicate with your version control provider. Therefore, the private key is used for:

- Checking out the main project
- Checking out any GitHub-hosted submodules
- Checking out any GitHub-hosted private dependencies
- Automatic git merging/tagging/etc

> For this reason, a deploy key isn't sufficiently powerful for projects with additional private dependencies.

Reviewer: What do they need to do then if they have private dependencies? I feel like we can signpost this better 🤔

Reviewer: I think it's `docs/2.0/github-integration/#enable-your-project-to-check-out-additional-private-repositories` that they need if this is their use case

> For this reason, a deploy key isn't sufficiently powerful for projects with additional private dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, a deploy key is not sufficiently powerful for projects with additional private dependencies.
```

=== User key security

CircleCI will never make your SSH keys public.

The private keys of the checkout key-pairs CircleCI generates never leave the CircleCI systems (only the public key is transmitted to GitHub) and are safely encrypted in storage. However, since the keys are installed into your build containers, any code that you run in CircleCI can read them. Likewise, developers that can SSH in will have direct access to this key.

Remember that SSH keys should be shared only with trusted users. GitHub collaborators on projects employing user keys can access your repositories, therefore, only entrust a user key to someone with whom you would entrust your source code.

> **Isn't there a difference between deploy keys and user keys?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== What is the difference between deploy keys and user keys?
```

Deploy keys and user keys are the only key types that GitHub supports. Deploy keys are globally unique (for example, no mechanism exists to make a deploy key with access to multiple repositories) and user keys have no notion of _scope_ separate from the user associated with them.

> To achieve fine-grained access to more than one repo, consider creating what GitHub calls a <<#controlling-access-via-a-machine-user,machine user>>. Give this user exactly the permissions your build requires, and then associate its user key with your project on CircleCI.

Reviewer: I feel like this section belongs further up right under the definition of Deploy Key and User Key?

=== User key access-related error messages

Here are common errors that indicate you need to add a user key.

**Python**: During the `pip install` step:

```
ERROR: Repository not found.
```

**Ruby**: During the `bundle install` step:

```
Permission denied (publickey).
```

== Add a .circleci/config.yml file

After the necessary permissions have been set up, the next step is adding a `.circleci/config.yml` file to the projects you would like to use with CircleCI.

Add a `.circleci` directory to a repository you want to connect to CircleCI. Inside that directory, add a `config.yml` file. You can use the basic configuration below inside your configuration file:

```yaml
version: 2.1

orbs:
    hello: circleci/hello-build@0.0.5

workflows:
    "Hello Workflow":
        jobs:
          - hello/hello-build

```

After you create and commit a `.circleci/config.yml` file to your GitHub repository, CircleCI immediately checks your code out and runs your first job along with any configured tests. This basic example runs a "hello world."

> CircleCI runs your tests on a clean container every time so that your tests are fresh each time you push code, and so that your code is never accessible to other users. Watch your tests update in real-time on https://circleci.com/dashboard[your dashboard]. You can also get status updates through email notifications, or look for the status badges that appear on GitHub. Integrated statuses also appear on the pull request screen, to show that all tests have passed.

Reviewer: Instead of this mini guide to adding a config can we just push people here? https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/getting-started/ for this info? (one reason is this orb doesn't seem to exist anymore 😬 )

Provide CircleCI with a GitHub user key in your project's **Project Settings** > **SSH keys**. Scroll down the page to **User Key** and click **Authorize with Github**. CircleCI creates and associates this new SSH key with your GitHub user account for access to all your repositories.

== Best practices for keys

- Use Deploy Keys whenever possible.
- When Deploy Keys cannot be used, <<#controlling-access-via-a-machine-user,Machine User Keys>> must be used, and have their access restricted to the most limited set of repos and permissions necessary.
- Never use non-Machine user keys (keys should be associated with the build, not with a specific person).
- You must rotate the Deploy or User key as part of revoking user access to that repo.
  1. After revoking the user’s access in GitHub, delete keys in GitHub.
  1. Delete the keys in the CircleCI project.
  1. Regenerate the keys in CircleCI project.
- Ensure no developer has access to a build in a repo with a User Key that requires more access than they have.

== Establish the authenticity of an SSH host

> When using SSH keys to checkout repositories, it may be necessary to add the fingerprints for GitHub to a "known hosts" file (`~/.ssh/known_hosts`) so that the executor can verify that the host it is connecting to is authentic. The `checkout` job step does this automatically, so you will need to run the following commands if you opt to use a custom checkout command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using SSH keys to check out repositories, it may be necessary to add the fingerprints for GitHub to a "known hosts" file (`~/.ssh/known_hosts`) so that the executor can verify that the host it is connecting to is authentic. The `checkout` job step does this automatically, so you will need to run the following commands if you opt to use a custom checkout command:
```

> When using SSH keys to checkout repositories, it may be necessary to add the fingerprints for GitHub to a "known hosts" file (`~/.ssh/known_hosts`) so that the executor can verify that the host it is connecting to is authentic. The `checkout` job step does this automatically, so you will need to run the following commands if you opt to use a custom checkout command:

Reviewer: Might be helpful to link ``checkout` job step` to: https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#checkout

# github.com:22 SSH-2.0-babeld-2e9d163d
# github.com:22 SSH-2.0-babeld-2e9d163d
➜  ~ ✗
```

You can add the key to known_hosts by running the following command:
```shell
ssh-keyscan github.com >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts
```

== Controlling access via a machine user

For fine-grained access to multiple repositories, it is best practice to create a machine user for your CircleCI projects. A https://developer.github.com/v3/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#machine-users[machine user] is a GitHub user that you create for running automated tasks. By using the SSH key of a machine user, you allow anyone with repository access to build, test, and deploy the project. Creating a machine user also reduces the risk of losing credentials linked to a single user.

To use the SSH key of a machine user, follow the steps below.

> **Note:** To perform these steps, the machine user must have admin access. When you have finished adding projects, you can revert the machine user to read-only access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To perform these steps, the machine user must have admin access. When you have finished adding projects, you can revert the machine user to read-only access.
```

1. Create a machine user by following the https://developer.github.com/v3/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#machine-users[instructions on GitHub].

1. Log in to GitHub as the machine user.

> 1. Log in to the [CircleCI web app](https://circleci.com/login). When GitHub prompts you to authorize CircleCI, click the **Authorize application** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to the https://circleci.com/login[CircleCI web app]. When GitHub prompts you to authorize CircleCI, click the **Authorize application** button.
```

- While waiting for approval, you will see **Access request pending** next to your organization’s name.
- If CircleCI has been approved by your organization, you will see a checkmark next to your organization’s name.

==== Admin owner workflow

- If you are an owner of your organization (an admin), you may grant access to CircleCI by clicking on the **Grant** button.
- You may be asked to confirm your password in order to authorize our app.
- Once you’ve approved CircleCI, you will see a checkmark next to your organization’s name.

After access is granted, CircleCI should behave normally again.

== Rename orgs and repositories

If you find you need to rename an org or repo that you have previously hooked up to CircleCI, the best practice is to follow these steps:

1. Rename org/repo in GitHub.
1. Head to the CircleCI application, using the new org/repo name, for example, `app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/<new-org-name>/<project-name>`.
1. Confirm that your plan, projects and settings have been transferred successfully.
1. You are then free to create a new org/repo with the previously-used name in GitHub, if desired.

> **Note**: If these steps are not followed, you might lose access to your org or repo settings, including **environment variables** and **contexts**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If these steps are not followed, you might lose access to your org or repo settings, including **environment variables** and **contexts**.
```

Reviewer: Also to add a Next Steps section at the end of these integration pages we could signpost people to the project settings overview? https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/settings/ - just off the top of my head
